Dettroit barax. Jan. 15. 1864

Dear father and Mother

I take my pen in hand to inform you that I am well at present and I hope thes fue linds will find you the Same  I have not ben pade yet but expect to be pad payed next teusday and then leve for Nashville tensesee  Mack Master has ben her this week and he thinks we will go teusday  he has gon home to day. thare is a good meny Solders her in the barax  they are a sending of a good meny of them every fue days and thare ar sume new Recruts that comes in [ ] every day. Thare is three or fore four bildings her in the barax two of them the new Recruts stay in and the other two the inder, inverlids live thay are Solders that ben sent Her to winter and get Recruted up. All that are able to fight thay will Send them back to thar Ridgement. We stay ~~th~~ with them for we have plenty of Roume and good buncks to sleep in but we haint lowed to eat withe them we eat with the new Recrutes Thay have a long table a bout .70. feet long and thay have from four to five table fouls three times a day Thare is Some crouding about that time but thay hav a nuf to eat setch as it is. bred pork Coffee for breckfast, dinner hard tack beef supe beef and water but most of the time thay have bred  we go for our meels then go back to place with inverlids  thay are not so Crouded and thay keep ther Room Clean  thay have Rooms to eat and Rooms sleep. Thare Rooms that the new Recruites stay thay are so fool and Crouded so that we would not go thare Sleep for the mud and durt is a inch thick on the flore and somebody is having thare over Coat or boots stole every day some money stole watches caps knapsacks. if you get my first letter thare is a Reseat to go and get my Cloes to the Depo. I kep my flanel shirt cap and vest. ~~I bro I get~~ I drod one shirt one pare of pants two Cots one bous a par of Sox knapsack haversack Canttean and blancket and I have got all of them marked with my name on them. if Comes her which I expec he will be her when we are pade and if he goes home again I will send 60. dollars to you by him and if he Should not go will send it by express  I Cant send but .60. dollars, my expences are over five dollars her in detroit  we got in to detroit Satterday after new yers and we stade to the tavern five days before we could get musterd in and then we ~~stad~~ went to the barax  Mack pade bill and we haft to pay him. You can pay Gim Sheldon .50. dollars and get that morgtage to Marshall and dorse it and tak ten dollars and bey Sum feed for the sheep, but if thay are a groing poor feed then potatoes if you Cant get eny thing els. So good by Racide Mosher