May the 10th. 1864

Dear Sister

Clarisa you write first Rate. be hanged if you Cant bete me  I did not think you could write So well  I like to have you write a long letter for I dont have much to Read & I like to Read over your letters. I will Soon go to bridgeport if I have my helth & I Can get Chance I will get likeness & Send home. thare are a good meney that Send home theres. I dont See how the boys happon to Start of So far from home  I hope they will do well & not get Sick. Gord Farrend is ded  he was to Nashvill when he dide he was sick with the fever fever awhile & then he got better & was up around & then all to wonce he droped away  it was Susposed that he was home Sick  Ugene King has gone home on a ferlow  he has ben Sick ever Senc he Came to the Rigiment. I have not done but three days works Sence I have ben in the Sirvees  thay dont give but 13. dollars a month with out thay are a Mech=  the Sotherne people are grate tockers thare tock is like this. I Reckon I make Rite mart butter. we Can bey butter of them for .40 Cents a pound. we bey Some butter & egges trade Coffee & tea for them. you must excuse me  So good bey your affectionate Brother. the men here are making finger Rings  they Send Some of them home if you will have Father bey cople of files I will make Some & Rings & Send to you  I can Send in a letter  they Cost too much to bey them  they Sell Some for .2. dollars a pece  you want to get a half round file & a three Corner file the half round one is to file the in Side of the ring after it is driled  they are made out of Shells we find in the tennessee River. Send them by Mc.Master  Some Send them by Male
	
Father when I send the money I wish you would go to docter hovey & tell him how I am & have him fix some medeson for the eresyplus & you Send it by Mc & send me a box of pills that is good to Clens the Sistem for I am billious
	
Mother you must Send me Some dride berries if you have got eney. Mother you must not worey about me for I Shall git along Some how  I like it better then i did here the wether is so worm. So good bey  Raycide Mosher  your Son