Beufort, South Carlina. January 29, 1865

Dear Father & Mother,

I Set down to write a fue lines to day for I think I Can rite more this time  I wrote a letter yesterday & I was in Setch a hurry that I Could not write much but we are in Camp ~~yet & ma Say~~ yet & may stay here a week & we may ~~not~~ have orders to march ~~is~~ before I get this letter wrote we are agoing for Charlston when we leve   & Jenerl Shirmon is very nere the place I expect & he is bound to go in with his army & take the place if they dont Come to hirs tirms. & Jenerl Shirmon made a big Rade when we Come through Georgia & took Savannah & South Carlina hats to have him Come through & scour the Country  So they are want to Come to Some tirms but if not we are going Strate through & take Charlston & we go in after the place is takon & fortify the place  we are Camped about .50. miles from Charlston & bout 60. Miles from Savannah nere Buford. I think if we git Charlston that the war will be ofver this Spring  I hope So at eney Rate. the wether is quite Cold it freses ice half a ince thick & there is Cold winds. we have our tents up in Roos like indens huts two men in a tente & we go to the woods & get wood & back in & bild little fires in frunt of our tents it is most to Cold to write but I will do the best I Can for I do not no when I Shell write agin may not untill get to Charlston. you must write as Soon as you get this Mother. & Clarisa. with out delay for it will folow let ous go to the ends of the erth. thare is a man ~~by the~~ in our Compney his name is Bisby he ownn 80. acers of land 6. miles from the plank Road that Runs from Calamzoo to Grang rapeds  it lays west of the plank 20. miles from Colamzoo .18. miles from Grandrapseds & on the plank whare he turns to to his place thare is two Stowsers & a grist mill & thare is ~~with in~~ a Sawmill in 2. miles of the farm & a nother in thrree miles on Rabbit River ~~they~~ thare is a good School house with in a half mile of his house he Says he has a good hude log hous in Side & out & a olde log house he has fore a barn & a Shop & thare is a good Spring nere the house  the land is Roling high & dry Sandy gravel Soil & no wast land  it is timberd land Some bech maple white oak plenty of it & white wood the timber is thrifty & Splits nice he says & he has about 30 acrs Choped 25. ounder the plow he Says they are agoing to have a grist mill whare the Saw mil ~~ls is~~ is  he offers to Sell the place for 8. houndred dolars he Says he will Sell it to me for that  he wants four houndred down & he will wate two years fore the Rest. I tell him if I Come home this Spiring I will go & See it. it is in Alagon Co. town of Dor. they make lots of Maple Shouger. when I Come home, Father we will go & see the pace & if we like it I think we hed better Seell out go thare by it they have the best kind of timber for logs and Staves & good land fore Sheep, Cows & hogs the grass Comes in march I do not like it whare we live for it is so gruby swampy & black bird hold Marsh & lakes. he Sayes the woods are Clean no brush in the woods. the white oaks are large & tall Splite like a Reed and make nice Staves thare is a very fue large pine on one Corner of his farme that he is agoing to Save to bild a house & barn he Says thare is plenty of white wood on the place a man Can drow to the mill  they Sell well he has lost his wife & his helth is poor & he wants to to keeping grocry he Says it is very helthy thare  wall I Cant think of eney more write at presant take good Care of of your Sefns  

Rite Soon your Son Raycide Mosher. Direct to 

Co. A. 1st Mich= Eng= & Mech= on the March 

Beaufort, South carlina
