Atlanta, Georga. October 14. 1864

Dear Parents. I take my pen in hand this morning to write a fue linds to you I got a letter from you this morning dated Sep. the 18. I was glad to here from you for it has ben Some time Sence I herd from home I am well as usal except I have a Slite Cold which is nothing new for me. we have mooved Camp jest got fixt up a gin we are in the villige now & likley will Stay here all winter  the Rigment is fild up now Some of the old boys are going home. the new Recruits that Come in the most of them Come from Grand rapids & mont Came County & off north they in listed for one yerae the most of the men here in the South think the war will be over by next Spring  I hope so at eney Rate. we have not hed eney male for Some time till this morning Generl hood got around in behind us & tore up about 15. miles of the Rail Rode between here and Chattanooga a Stasion called big Shanty. but Shurman & his army got after him & Cut him up bad & took a good meney prisners & he Set them to work ~~and~~ at the Road to fixt it up. Grant he is to work ~~to~~ at Richmond with good Sucksess if he gits that place this war will Come to a Close Soon I think. but hood army has Cut of our Commucations So that we do not have much to eat but hard tack & Coffee & the temes Some of them are ~~ding of~~ Starving to deth but we will Soon git per vision thrue agin. I have not done eney work yet more then fix up the tents & make my bung & tinker around. Some time I am out to Role Coll & if dont git out McMaster never Sayes eney thing he favers me all he Can. the Most of the boys have got ther bunks made & fixt for winter  we have puty Cold nites & Some Cold & windy days. we tare down houses & make bunks & flower in our tents & build up the Sides of the tent two or three feet & Strech the tent ~~ofre~~ over it. thare is .8. men in a tent my tent is .8. four bunks. My bunk mate is fred kimmer he lives a half mile South of daveses Chool hous he is a big Stout man but he has not ben able to do much more then I have Sence we have ben in the Survise. the helthest men we have git Sick & Run clere down & hant able to do nothing. thare Has a number of our boys that has ben Sick as well as my Sefl & Some of them died. & they ware once tuf & well. thare is Some old men here thare is ~~in~~ one in my tent that is 50 years old he name is dart. he lives to Grand Rapids. Price Witting lives ~~to~~ in Cullumby Jackson. Co. he lives nere old Osbrucks. he is 49  one other man ~~Solom~~ Solmon W. Phillips ~~lives~~ his home is in ~~Vermont~~ Vermont. Father we have not ben pade of yet but the boys think we will be pade when the old boys go out there time is out the .29 of this month  I wish you would Send me a fue Stamps in your next letter Write as Soon as you get this. Number it number one Same as this. Send the box to atlanta if you hand Send it for it may Come Sooner. So good by Father & Mother. Sisters & brothers yours W.R. Mosher

I hed one letter from Clara She is well Send the butter, ten pound onions & dride apple ginger 1/2 pound bottle of pepper sauce, pail of persures. O it will be So good Mother  if you Sent it to Nashville it will Come but not So Soon as it will to Send it to Atlanta Georga it will Cane to the Rig= let go whare it May  

Raycide Mosher 

Co. A. 1st. Mich= Eng= & Mech= Atlanta Georga

in care of J. W. Williamson on the box
