---
# text from typescript transcript
---
Racide Mosher

Febuary the 20. 1864

Dear Father & Mother,

I take My pen in hand to write to you a nother letter  I wrote one to you the first of febuary and I have not herd eney thing from you untill Mc. Master Come here the other day he Come in the eightteene I was glade to him. I got the [ ] Wife. I Should have wrote again but I expected to here from you every day untill I herd that Mc. Master was on the rode & then I thought that you wood Send a letter bey him. but I found a fue linds which I was ~~here~~ glad to here. I am not very well I have ben sick Most of the time I have ben in camp  I worked three or fore days ~~to~~ when I ferst Come here & then I was taken with a diere & I have not ben able to work So I lay around in my tent Cut wood and keep warm and fick up the tent  I go to the doctors and get Medison & take which I am better now  I think I Shall be able to go to work fore long we have mooved since I have ben here a bout 7. miles we are about .56. miles north west of Nashville on a Railrode thay are bilding thrugh to the Tennessee river  the river is a bout 20. Miles. the Cars Come down from Nasville .23 Miles and from thare we have wagons to drow in the pervisons to us  we have plenty to eat we have flower to make biscuit we have benes pork Coffee tea & Suger Rice & plenty of Sesioning. one man has to Cook for 20 or 25 men thay haft to take turns one Cook a week & then a nother but we hired a man to Cook in our Mess  thare is twenty six in our Mess and we hired Gord Farrand to Cook  we give him 50 Cents a Month a pece  he has to Cook rite out doore in rane or sine  bild his fire on the ground & set his Cittles he makes good wages at it but a man has got work if he Cooks for 27 men he has to be up erley in the morning and he has to be on his feet all day long for to Cook for So Meney. the Men are a giting out ties now & timber for the Railrode thare is foure Compneys here to gether. Co. A. F. G. H. and thare is a Ridgment of negroes not fer of & there is a regment of Cavery back from whare we ~~Come~~ mooved from  we are rite in the woods  the wether is Cold here now now in is Cold nights the ground freezes Sume. Tennessee is a hiley & maunttanios Contery and fool of rocks thare is Some plow land in the valeys but I had drother have our place the whole of tennessee & be blidge to live here  the land the most of in wont rase eney thing  the timber is very good white oak and grubey and gravel and rocks  we have Muels here to work with draw in the per visions and the negroes have them to draw dire on the railrode. I have gest got my tent fixt up and a bed mad up from the ground  thare is 8. Men in a tent I whish that you Could have got my letter that I wrote the first of Febuary  I wrote to have you send my hat in the trunk  I must have me a hat the hats that the Men drow are meen things  thay ask 2. dollars & a half for them. Gord Farrend got a letter yesterday and his wife sad that you had not herd from me Sence I went from detroit and that you was over thar to find out the resion that I had not wrot. I hope that you will get this letter as the 27. of this month & you must write as soon as you get this with out fale and as soon as I here frome you I will write and Send Sume money ~~and get~~ and have you Send me Some Stamps I had no Chance to bey eney on the rode Comeing though for thay kept us garded all of the way thrugh to Nashville. Mc.Master Says that you got a lot of Cloes but that you did not get mine  So thay have made Sume misstake Marking them Mc. sed that he got a Coat that ~~be~~ belong to John hiet and thare is boy in our tent his name is Fetterley his father lives to Concorde if thare Comes eney over after them let them go if not keep them. you must rite Father & Mother.

Raycide Mosher. Co. A. 1st Reg. Eng. & Mech. Nashville Tennessee

Raycide Mosher 

1st Engrs & Mechs

Nashville Tennessee

(Care of Capt. J B Williamson Co A)