---
# text from typescript transcript
---
March tuesday the 29. 1864

Nashville General Hospitle No. 19

Dear Father & Mother Sisters and Brothers

I will write to you all a good Famley letter this time so you can All lission. this morning I got up & jest got dressed as the ward Master Come a long & hand me a letter that had Come from McMaster that Clarrace had wrote. I was glad to here from you and that you ware all well I am Better to day then I was a Sunday  I set up most all day now and I have a good apatite to eat. I got the postage Stamps all rite. I have no Cofe now nor I have not Cofed Sence I left the Redgiment  the wether is quite warm here Cool breses wind & we have rain Most every day  the grass is green & the peach trees are in blow. I can Get a pas to go out in the Citey every day if I want. I Shall go out as soon as I get a little better. I have a nuf to eat bred and butter potatoes twice a day butter twice a day puddon molases baked apples Sume times bred puden boiled in a bag with rasins in meet pey, tea & coffee every thing is very hie here butter is worth .60 Cents a pound eggs five Cents a pece good apples ten Cents a pece. Nashville is quite a large Citey it fool of solders and offersers & thare is offerser to every five Man  thay travel the sreets offle big & if thay Cetch Solder out with out a pas thay will put him in the guard house they are giting big pay what do they Care. 

the Most of the bildings here are brick the hospital i am in is foure Storey high & two hundred & fiftey feet long & about 60 wide. thare is wards 1. 2. & 3 I am in the 2 ward  thare is one hundred & fiftey beds in a ward thay are all numbered My bed is .207. the lower room is a Cook room & tables set for them to eat that is well a nuf to go down Sters to eat but you dont haft to go dow a tall if we hant a mint to fore they fetch up the bred & butter & plates & put them on a table but the bred put it on the plates butter outher eatables & fetch it to your bed put it on a stand that sets to the head of the bed and we Can eat all we want if we are well a nuf  thay fetch tea & Coffee if a man is able to walk a round thay will fetch his vituls to him. the docter Comes once a day a round to your bed & see how you are & gives orders a man that out medeson fetches it your bed orr coll our number. Reed the other Sheet. I shall be here I dont now how long un till I get able to dutey I Shall Stay till the middle of April if not longer I Shant be in no herry my time is pasing of let me be whare I will the 14 of April will be four monthes  I dont expect get eney pay un till go to my Reg= for the docter has got my diseriptive list he is to the Regment & they ~~do~~ may not pay after & do get back for 2. monts  Sume Say that thay dont pay un till we have ben in Six monts. but when they do pay I will Send I home the longer they wate the more thare will be. I expect they I wont get but 13 dollars a month 

I hope that this ~~ware~~ war will Close up by next fall but it May last three year  the relble ~~Prsner~~ prisoners that we get Say that the South is geting whiped as fast as She can ~~they~~ we are a Starving them out they dissert and Come ~~as our Men go~~ to the north every now and then when they can get a Chanc they Say they dont have hafe a nuf to eat  General Grant is Making preparing to take Richmond & if they get her once it will use them bout up  we are a giting in a pile of men this Spring I tell you the old solders reinlisting for three yers more which will mak it so much the better.

I hope they will close it up bey next fall. and if I live we will have all of them dets pade up. I tell you what how much better we can live and be out of det and not owe nobody a Cent. I am glad that you are a going to bild you a little barn fore you need it bade anuf but be Carful not get in to det much. for you no Father that when this rebelion is crushed thare will be difernt times. and then we dont allwors want to in det  So for we haft to work So hard to get out and now is the time to get out be twen now & nex fall. Mother you must get along with that old stove fore it is one of the best old thing I ever See I ~~wod~~ would like to hade Setch a won when I was in Camp. We hed to out doors bild a fire on the ground wet and Cold Set Sume Cittles on put in beens boil nock a barl of flower take out Sume flower put in to a half barl & pore in watter Sume grees that was fride out of pork Salratus get Clean pened bord & put it on the barrel to mix on bake them in a bacittle bake up a lot of them then when thay got thouse and it was meel time the will holler dinner No.6. then we wood git our tin plats Copes go out in mud rane Sume times get Sume biscuit & beens pork Cope of Coffee run back in the tent and eat. the last of febuary we hade a rane Storm it froze ice on the trees so thick that the limbs of the trees fell like every thing but did not eney wone get heret. it was in the nite and we got our tents whare thare was much danger in the morning thay choped down the trees. I do not think of eney more to write at presant So good bey write Soon as you can. Raycide Mosher. 

General hospitle 

No. 19 Ward 2. Bed No. 207 

Nashville tennessee

tuesday March the 29. 1864

here is one Side I fer got fill out So now Sence I have eaton my dinner I will write a little More. I herd that Marih had lost her Child the .22. of febuary McMaster herd from home his wife wote about it. I think that if Ambron Ostin dont go to work and try to do Sume thing that I would have Merih Come home and leeve him in tirely and not have eney thing to do with him atoll  She will be a good deal beter of then whe will to drag her life out with him  She will be a help to you and Clarrase Can to Scool more. You must rite all of the news you Can  I expect the Sheep have all got lambs bey this time  I hope you will have good luck for they are the best property we have got. you wont have the other letter Much before this. Raycide Mosher. 

Nashville tennessee. All of you Write So good bey