---
# text from typescript transcript
---
April the .26, 1864,

Dear Father & Mother,

I thought that I would write a fue linds to you to day Mc. has gone home & has tacon the Shirts & drowers to you that I Sent gest be fore he started a way I broke out on my arms & Some of the men Sed it was the Small pox. but when I was in the hospital thare was a man in the ~~word~~ Same word that I was he broke out with the Small pox & thay Card him out soon as he was broke out yester day the Capton went & got a dokter ~~to~~ & he looked at me & he sed he gest I hed he giv some bowerds & Sed he would Come up agin in the morning look at me agin So he Come up this morning looked at me he Sed it was the very Oloid Sence I have broke out I have felt better & this morning the dokter giv me Some pills I was vacenated when I first Come in the regiment So that wont hav it hard it wont Come out on my mace nor hands it is very Catern on my boddy I am up around Sume but dont go out doers much I Sleep with a man that has had the Sall pox he hed not ben vaxenated & he did not have it so hard as some  they dont think that the Sall pox is hard here on ~~focer~~ men as the melsels  are thare lots of men die with melsals. I to the docter a bout the shirt & drowers that I took of the I took of one of the gray shirts and the red drowers & done them up to Send them with Mc for he was a going to start the next morning & I discoverd that I had Some red pempls on me & I thought was a ere Sypurls. the docter ~~tel~~ Sed that thare would be no danger bound them out then ~~that~~ hang them out thare they Could are good it would be purfickly Safe for I had not got it bad anuf to give it then & Soon as I found out that I had it thought I would to you & let now how it was for in the mornind g when Mc. start of I did not no that it was the small pox but I have it very lite the says luckley that ~~had~~ I had ben vaxnated so that it wont make eney pits on me. we shall be pade of now in a bout a week and I Shall rite as soon as I am pade & Send Some money  I want you to wach the male Clost  you need not rite untill you get the letter with the money then rite & let me no you must go or send by some one once a week & oftnerr if you are wish. Good by  Send me some good liver pills & a little dride fruit if have it  we have plenty of Suger biscuit & meet is a bout all we have to eat. Send it bey ~~Mack~~ McMaster her he Coms back.. 	

Raycide Mosher 

burn this after Reding