---
# text from typescript transcript
---
Tiney Crick. Alabama  May the 10th 1864

Dear Father & Mother, Sisters & brothers
	
I Reseved your letter to day ~~dated May~~ Maled May the .2. I was glad to here From you & here that you are well  I am better then I was when Mc.Master left here. that braking out I hade on me was not the Smallpox I think it is the eyresiplus in my blud  I broke out all over me with red pimpls & they itched Sume & after a little it Struck in & I felt well for a week and ganed very fast & we moved from the place whare we was when Mc. left, we have mooved to alabama e are one hundred & 25. mils from Nashville on the Railrode. 90. miles from Bridgeport. the men are bilding a Stockade thare is some fiting in Some of the little towns not far off  we Can here thare guns  when we get through here we are going to moove to bridgeport  we will moove in about two weeks  for a fue days back I have felt well & wade as much as I ever did but I have not ben able to work  I need Sume pills I am billious  for two days now I have ben Sick but able to be around & that is about all. ~~Father I sent you~~ My blude is very bad  it must be the ersyplus in my blud for when I exersise eney thare is a ~~hete~~ heat ness runs through my vanes as if I stood in a hot fire. the wether is warme here & nice when we get hungery for beef we go out in the Contery & Shoot down the first good beef we Come acroust  Care it in to Camp. we have Sined the pay Rols & we will be pade this week & as soon as I am pade I will Send Some home bey male  I dont now how much I will get but if I get the forty dollars bounty & the monthley pay it will be .85. dollars. you need not rite untill you the a nother letter & I Shall Send Some money in it but you must tend to the male & not lett eney one now that you are agoing to get eney money bey male. I want to Send money enuf to pay barns & Osro kellogge & ten dollars to you. that is if I get that much money. you must rite all of the news you Can & write how the wheat looks. I think if you will Send me Some Medison to take that I will get along  the docter is to bridgeport & he hant worth much eney way  he will give a person a little quinine & that is about all. then the boys thare have Shuved out have they thay may ~~dew~~ do well they hire a good meny temsters here but if thay hired to drive ~~hoss~~ horses that will do but to drive fore muls & ride the hind nere mule & have onely one line to drive with I shood not fancy Much. I Cant think much to write this time but you must not worey about me  I shall get along Some way if you will Send me some Medsone by Mack Master when he Comes to the Reg=  So good bey to you All for this time.  

Raycide Mosher  

Co. A.  1st Reg=  Mich Eng=  & Mech.  Nashville Tennessee

I Shall haft to Stop now for our Cook has Jest fetched in a pot pey made out of beef.