Goldsberro North Carlina April 6.

Dear Mother,

I Set down to write a fue lines to let you now that I am well & harty, & I hope the fue lines will find you all well. we heve jest got the news from Generl Shirmon that Richmon is ours & peters burg that Generl grant done the work & took 25. thousand prisners. Mr. Generl Lee has put out but if he hant Carful he will git him Self in to a trap for Shirman will hed him & Grant will folow lee up. the boys feel well now they think the war will Soon Close. I hope it will but I don't Cheer Much for fere it wont. our offercs put on Considderble Stile. drill four ours a day Rool Cold four times a day & if a Man hant thare he is put on extry duty. our Curnel if a Man Stans guard four his dont Salute him Rite he has him tide up by the thumbs but I have not hed no truble yet but Mr. Curnel yats will haft to look out when the war is over for Some of the men will tend to him. we expect to March in a fue days we heve drowed new Cloes & new tents turnd over our olds wons & we haft to have extry par of Shues we heve had inspection of our gunes knapsack & every thing. My gun I heve turned it over to the Captian he thought I wood not be Able to Carry it I suppose I gess the docter told him to So. I am very glad for I have a nuf to Carry with out it & keep up in the Ranks & my load is not So much as the Rest of the Men  the first is our haver Sack three days Rashions in them Canteen fring pan Cup 2 quort pail, blanket one Shirt one pair of Socks Ruber blanket one par of Shues dog tent & that is all & three men go to gether tent to gethe I men put up to tents for a roof one to the end & if it Comes a driving Storm put up a ruber blanket to one ~~ent~~ end dig a trench around the tent. it Raines & blows Some times very hard I never was drove out yet I Stick up my tent good & take Car of my Self as well as I Can. we have plenty to eat now we jest five days Rashions plenty of hard tack Salt pork Smok ham fresh beef. we have plenty of Cattle to kill when we want eney beef. we have shuger one Cup to a Man for five days bens  Some times Cod fish & Mackerl. Coffee  we have a very plesant Camp ground we live in little huts 6 feet & half squar made of bords three feet high with our dog tents on for the Roof we Can jest Stand up in the ~~in it~~ tent theree in a tent. Father take good of the if you dont go to Minesota... & Sell the wool & pay up your dets & give me the increese of the Sheep  Straton every Cent you owe now with out fale.. Seell out if you Can dont wate for me to Come home... the wether is warm & nice the trees are leved out & it is very plesant wether now 

So good by fore this time  write Soon it will follow me excuse me for Setch bad wrting  tell Clarisa & Ams flks I am to lasy to write to them & they need not look for a letter. tell them I am tugher then I ever new my Self  

yours. Harry Mosher your son 

Raycide Mosher your son