Dansville Gorga September the 18th. 1864

Dear Father & Mother,

I Set down to write a fue lines to you  I got a letter from you yesterday & was glad to here from you I hante herd from you in Some time because I have ben mooving around So much  I am with the Compney now & am not very well, but I hope thes fue lines will find you all well  I am So to be a bout but not able to do eney thing & I hante agoing to a man that works here in the armey he wants a Constatution like a horse & that I have not got but i think I Shall Stand it thrugh Some how for I think & the Most of the Men that the war will be over this fall or next Spring  I have ben with the Compney ever the 29 of Augast the letter that I got from you was direct to the hospital  I got a letter from Clarisa the Same day I got yourn you need not Send eney invepls for I have plenty of them & paper. I want you & father to get Some good writing paper & have good pens & ink & Carry a lite hand & it will not blot on the paper & you Must Write a good long letter. I Can read them first Rate. if you had one hundred & Sixty bushels of wheat it has done very well. thare is a man here that ~~tak~~ gits a Albion paper from home it Sayes that wheat is worth 2 dollars a bushel & the most of the men think that it will be worth 3 dollars by next Spring. but now Father git out of det. now is your time & onely & See how it will Seeme. if you have my Share of the wheat am Shure that it will pay you up on the Mortgage that you have on my land with what money I have Sent you & the wool of from the Sheep  Write & let me now how things are how you are a giting along. I do not now wether I will be pade this time or not the pay Master has not Come a Round yet. My. We have had orders March to atlanta at a hour worning when Colled apon that is 60. miles South of us  the place we have Jest got from the Rebels. if Ambroes wants to go on to my land & build a Shanty he Can try it I will help him all I Can he may go on & Clere the land & I will pay him well for it. When I am pade I will Send Some money to bey a Cow & you May bey her if you dont want the youse of here he Can ~~he Can~~ take her to keep ~~for the use of~~ father you must take good care of the Sheep So that when I Come home I will have a good flock of Sheep. I do not think of eney more to Rite at presant So you must all try to get along the best you Can & I will try & do Same it is hard times all over the world. Write Soon as you get this & number your letter So that I will now wether I miss eney or not. Write long letters Father you must Write git on your Specks & you will make it go. Mother you Must help him all you Can. fill one Sheat & that will do. & it will please me very much. yours Harry Mosher. 

Raycide Mosher

Co. A. 1st. Mich= Eng= & Mech= Nashville Tenn=
