---
# text from typescript transcript
---
March the 29th 1864

Dear Father & Mother
	
I take my pen in hand to in forme you that I am Sick in the hospitle but I hope thes fue linds will find you all well  I have ben in the hospitle little over a week I am sick with the janders & bilous  I am prety weak but I have not ben So be what I Could set up sum every day I think I am ganeing now. 

the last letter I wrote to you was about the last of febuary & Sent Sume money for sume stamps & the first of March we hade orders to go ~th~ to head quarters that is to chatanooga a bout one hundred & fifty miles ~~from~~ South east of Nashville. I was not able to march through to the cars & thay took my gun & aquipedge & put them away and sent them that war sick & me to Nashville thay ~~sent~~ drowed us in thare wagons to the Station about twenty five Miles then we got on the Cars and got up to Nashville Jest be fore dark & the dokter Com with us & he sent them that was the Sickest to the hospitle & I thought that he was agoing to send us all thare but he Sent me & Six or eight more to the barrax the zolercoffer house a large bilding seven story high & thare is three hundred & Sixty five Rooms in it. it is fool of Solders most of the time thay are a coming in every day Rigments of new ~~of~~ crutes vetron Solders & thare is Some going out every day to ther Regment, but it is fool all of the time in Spring it is a hard place for a man to Stay long  the bilding is not done of in Side & the windows are most of them are out and thay haft to Sleep on the flower they have bred beef or Sowbeley & Coffee For Supper & breadfast & dinner Beens Soup & bread. I was sent in thare the 9 of March & I Stade thare 13. days the 14th day I was takon worse & the docter of the barrax Sent me to the hospitle the docter of the Reg= never come nere me to get me out and a man cant get out of thare no more then he can out of prison. With out they want to Send of a Squad to there Reg=. when I left my regment I ast McMaster to send me my letters & he Sed he would if i would write to him & I did not write to him un till I got to the hospitle for I expected to leve the barrax every day. & it has ben a week now & I have not herd from him yet. the rebels have ben doing Sume damedge on the railrode they burnt a train of cars & tore up Sume track & I herd that they Striped two of our Compnes of every thing thay hade but what to I hant herd and all of the Solders on the trane. I have wating to here from Mc M. & that is the resion I have not wrote before but I hope you will write Soon as you get this for I am anchous to here from you and how you are agiting along. 

I do not no when I will get my pay I may not get it un till fall. Sume of the men have ben in the Surves ten monts be fore they got ther money. Father you must pay Osro Kellegg Sume way if you Can if thare is eney thing to Sell to get the money but dont sell eney of the Sheep keep all of the Sheep and dont Sell one. and dont bey eney thing onley Jest what you realy need for them dets & mortgages we must pay them bey next fall now when this ~~wore~~ war is over the greens backs wont be worth nothing  now is the time & only time to pay our dets & than we Can live on our land & do as we pleas. As Soon as I get well I am going to my Regiment but I Shant hery to go for I can get along here very well a month for I dont think I will be able to go much before that time. I get a nuf to eat ~~setch as is~~ Medsun to take like a nuf I shall here from McMaster be fore the week is gone  you must all of you write a little and all of the news good or bad & I will  this is rather a Short letter but I will rite more next time. Write how meney lambs I have. If thare is hay or potatoes to spar sell them & pay Osro that note. Sume think I will get my dis charge but I gess not they discharge as much as they mus to thare is more discharged in to there graves then eney whare else write soon as you get this. Raycide Mosher

direct to. General Hospital NJ. 19

Ward 2. Bed No. 207

Nashville, Tennessee